W-13570062-non-http-ingress (#138)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ps-config-fw-rules.adoc

** TCP: All ports
** HTTPS: 443

> Using an API, you can also configure inbound firewall rules that use protocol other than HTTP.

Reviewer: This can be enabled via UI, we dont need to use API to add TCP firewall rules in PS.

> Using an API, you can also configure inbound firewall rules that use protocol other than HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure inbound firewall rules that use TCP protocol 
```

> xref:ch2-deploy-api.adoc[Using the Application Manager API], you can also configure inbound firewall rules that use protocol other than HTTP.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also configure inbound firewall rules that use TCP as the protocol.
```

. Click *Save Changes* or *Discard changes*.
. Restart your application.

> == Configure TCP Ports for Apps

Reviewer 2: It seems we are missing the steps here on how to configure these. Should we have an image too for the UI as guidance?

Author: These steps are in Firewall Rules configuration.

Reviewer: Can we add a link to that doc overe here on how to add the tcp firewall rules

> To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, configure TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, configure TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. 

=== Deploy app using TCP ports
To deploy an app that uses TCP Ports, you can use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API]

> === Find Free Ports for Your App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Find Available Ports for Your App
```

> The port range for TCP is from 30500 to 32500. To confirm port availability, use the (name of) API that returns a list of available ports. 

Reviewer: I think here we add the Cloudhub2 Api , right ?

The following examples show the API request and response when you use it to find free ports:

Request:

[source,json]
---- 
GET
https:/anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/organizations/{organizationId}/privatespaces/{privatespaceId}/ports?available=true&count=10
----

Response: 

[source,json]
----
{
   "ports": [
       30500,
       30501,
       30502,
       30503,
       30504,
       30511,
       30512,
       30513,
       30514,
       30515
   ]
}
----

The `available` parameter enables you to alternate between used and unused ports.

> The `count` parameter enables you to specify the amount of ports desired. `count` can range from 1 to 10. 

Reviewer 3: What happens if the request is 10 ports but only 1 is available. Will it still return 1?

Reviewer: no, if only 1 is available, then it will return only the available 1 port

> The `count` parameter enables you to specify the amount of ports desired. `count` can range from 1 to 10. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `count` parameter enables you to specify the amount of ports desired. `count` can range from 1 to 10. The end result will be limited by the actual availability of ports. 
```

=== Deploy an App Using the Application Manager API

In the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], use the `tcp` section under `deploymentSettings` to map your TCP port and deploy your app. The mapping uses the external port to expose `portNumber` and the app level-defined port `applicationPortNumber`. There is a 10 port limit per application. 

The following example shows the request to deploy a new app using a TCP port mapping:

> [source,xml]

Reviewer 2: Should we split the request part of the examples from the body so we can mark those as JSON?

Author: Should these all be json? I can change it.

               "applicationPortNumber": 9001  
             },
             {
               "portNumber": 30502,
               "applicationPortNumber": 9002  
             },
           ]
         }
       },
//------------------------------------NEW-------------------------------------
     "jvm": {},
     "runtimeVersion": "4.4.0:20220523-1",
     "updateStrategy": "rolling",
     "disableAmLogForwarding": false,
     "generateDefaultPublicUrl": true
   },
   "replicas": 1
 },
 "application": {
   "ref": {
     "groupId": "66310c16-bce5-43c4-b978-5945ed2f99c5",
     "artifactId": "app-with-40-schedulers",
     "version": "1.0.5",
     "packaging": "jar"
   },
   "assets": [],
   "desiredState": "STARTED",
   "configuration": {
     "mule.agent.application.properties.service": {
       "applicationName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "properties": {},
       "secureProperties": {}
     },
     "mule.agent.logging.service": {
       "artifactName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "scopeLoggingConfigurations": []
     }
   },
   "integrations": {
     "services": {
       "objectStoreV2": {
         "enabled": false
       }
     }
   },
   "vCores": "0.05"
 }
}
----

> Deployments that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. If the app is deleted, the ports become available again.

Reviewer 3: add what the error message will be shown... does it specifically mention it's due to port unavailability?

Reviewer 2: It should AFAIK, @rsaxena05 can you confirm the exact message?

Reviewer: There are different kind of validations and respective error messages for those -
- If user specifies more than 10 ports then - `Owner <name>  has reached the maximum port lease capacity`
- If ports are not in range of 30500 - 32500  then - `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500`
- If port is already in use by another app - `Ports 30501 is already in use by other owner`

{
    "id": "id",
    "target": {
      "provider": "MC",
      "targetId": "873a9879-cca7-4211-b90e-826e98123929",
      "deploymentSettings": {
        "tcp": {
          "inbound": {
            "ports": [
              {
                "portNumber": 30507,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9007
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30508,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9008
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30509,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9009
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
----

Updates that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. The ports that you replaced with new mappings become available.

=== Access Your TCP App

You can access the app using VPN or a transit gateway and within the private space. Since the apps run on worker nodes, they cannot be accessed directly over the internet. The URL to access a TCP app has this structure: `{application-url}.tcp.{environment}.cloudhub.io:{port}`

> For example, the URL for the app deployed in the previous examples would be `logs-app-uc01.tcp.cloudhub.io:30500`.

Reviewer 3: the example URL is missing {environment} - is that optional?

Reviewer 2: @rsaxena05 is the env relevant for EU customers? Or can we not mention it?

Reviewer: yes env will be relevant for eu.
The above app url however it not a correct example, for example for an app `mllp-app-2` named the app url is `mllp-app-2-mpskt5.q8b5lv.usa-e1.tcp.stgx.cloudhub.io:30500`
